1.what is git ?
A.Git is a free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.
			Initial release date: 7 April 2005
			Repository: git.kernel.org/pub/scm/git/git.git
			License: GPL-2.0-only
			Operating system: POSIX (Linux, macOS, Solaris, AIX), Windows
			Stable release: 2.39.2 / 14 February 2023
			Programming languages: Python, C, C++, Perl, Tcl
			Developer: Linus Torvalds, Junio C Hamano
2.what is git flow ?
A.>A develop branch is created from master
  >A release branch is created from develop
  >Feature branches are created from develop
  >When a feature is complete it is merged into the develop branch
  >When the release branch is done it is merged into develop and master
  >If an issue in master is detected a hotfix branch is created from master
  >Once the hotfix is complete it is merged to both develop and master	

3.what is git hub ?
A.GitHub is a web-based version-control and collaboration platform for software developers. ... GitHub, 
  which is delivered through a software-as-a-service (SaaS) business model, was started in 2008 and was founded on Git, 
  an open source code management system created by Linus Torvalds to make software builds faster.
  
4.what is git hub flow ?
A.>create branch.   
  >add commit.
  >open a pull request.
  >discuss and review.
  >merge and deploy. 
  >celebrate.

5.what is git lab ?
A.it is a web-based Git-repository manager providing wiki, issue-tracking and CI/CD pipeline features,
  using an open-source license, developed by GitLab Inc.

6.what is bit bucket ?
A.It is our Git repository management solution designed for professional teams. 
  Bitbucket is a Git-based source code repository hosting service owned by Atlassian. 
  Bitbucket offers both commercial plans and free accounts with an unlimited number of private repositories.

  Written in?: ?Python	Created by?: ?Jesper Noehr
  Owner?: ?Atlassian	Registration?: ?Required with optional OpenID
  
7.what is git merge ?
A.>Merging is Git's way of putting a forked history back together again	  
  >Merging applies all commits from one branch to another branch, or we can say it merges the complete branches.
  
8.what is rebase ?
A.>Rebasing is the process of moving or combining a sequence of commits to a new base commit. 
  >Git rebase is a command used to get changes from one branch onto another by rewriting history.
  
9.what is cheery pick ?
A.Git cherry-pick applies the changes from specific commits from one branch to another branch. 

10.what is git branch ?
A.In Git, branches are a part of your everyday development process. Git branches are effectively a pointer to a snapshot of your changes

11.what is git repository ?
A.Repositories in GIT contain a collection of files of various different versions of a Project. These files are imported from the repository .

12.what is version control system ?
A.Version control, also known as source control, is the practice of tracking and managing changes to software code. Version control systems
  are software tools that help software teams manage changes to source code over time.   
    
	       there are two types of version control systems
		   1.centrallized version control system .
		   2.Distributed version control system .
		   
	Centralized version control systems — such as CVS, Perforce, and SVN — require users to pull the latest version from the server to
	download a local copy on their machine. Contributors then push commits to the server and resolve any merge conflicts on the main repository.	   
	
	An software development, distributed version control is a form of version control in which the complete codebase, including its full history,
	is mirrored on every developer's computes
	
13.what is pull and push ?
A.The git pull command is used to fetch and download content from a remote repository and immediately update the local repository to match that content.
  The git push command is used to upload local repository content to a remote repository. 

14.what si git clone ?
A.git clone is primarily used to point to an existing repo and make a clone or copy of that repo at in a new directory, at another location.

15.what is difference between git and svn ?
A.						Git													SVN
	1.It's a distributed version control system.				1.It's a Centralized version control system
	2.Git is an SCM (source code management).					2.SVN is revision control.
	3.Git has a cloned repository.							3.SVN does not have a cloned repository.
	4.Git does not have a Global revision number.				4. SVN has a Global revision number.
	5.Git stored content as metadata.						5.SVN stores content as files.
	6.Git has more content protection than SVN.				6.SVN's content is less secure than Git.
	7.Linus Torvalds developed git for Linux kernel.			7. CollabNet, Inc developed SVN.
	8.Git is distributed under GNU (General public license).	     8.SVN is distributed under the open-source license.
  
16.what is git stash ?
A.useful to move to another task .git stash puts the working directory on a stask and gives a clean working directory .
  later ,get all edits back using git stash apply . 
  
17.what is git conflict ?
A.two commit have changes in the same file and some location a conflict has to be resolve for correct code to be commited .

18.what is git reset ?
A.git reset is a powerful command that is used to undo local changes to the state of a Git repo. 

19.what is fork ?
A.A fork is a new repository that shares code and visibility settings with the original “upstream” repository.

20.whaat the difference between git and github ?
            Git										GitHub
1.	Git is a software.							GitHub is a service.
2.	Git is a command‑line tool					     GitHub is a graphical user interface
3.	Git is installed locally on the system		     GitHub is hosted on the web  

21.what is subgit and why it is used ?
A.SubGit is a tool for a smooth, stress-free SVN to Git migration. It creates a writable Git mirror of
  a local or remote Subversion repository and that way you can use both Subversion and Git as long as you like.
  
22.what is bisect and how do you use it ?
A. The git bisect  command performs a binary search to detect the commit .which introduced a bug on regression in the project history .

23.working directory ?  
A.the working directory of a process is a directory of a hierarchical file system, if any, dynamically associated with each process.

24.staging area ?
A. >the working area is where files that are not handled by git. These files are also referred to as "untracked files." 
    Staging area is files that are going to be a part of the next commit 
   
25.local and remote repository ?
A. >He local repository is a directory on the computer where Maven runs 
   >Remote repositories are versions of your project that are hosted on the Internet or network somewhere.
   
26.what is the functionality of git -ls -tree ?
A.the git ls tree command is used to list the content of tree object .

27.what is bare repository ?
A.> A bare repository is the same as default, but no commits can be made in a bare repository
  >A bare Git repository is typically used as a Remote Repository that is sharing a repository among several different people. 
  
28.what does git pull origin master do ?
A.git pull origin master` fetches commits from the master branch of the origin remote (into the local origin/master branch),
 and then it merges origin/master into the branch you currently have checked out. `git pull` only works if the branch you
 have checked out is tracking an upstream branch.

29.what is differrence between git fetch and git pull ?
A. >If you do a git fetch it will just fetch all the changes in the remote repository (Github) and move the origin/master pointer to HEAD
   >If you do a git pull, it will do basically fetch (as explained previously) and merge any new changes to your master branch and move the pointer to HEAD.
                       So, git pull=git fetch + merge. 
					   
30.what are the advantages of using git ?
A. >faster release cycles
   >Easy team collaboration 
   >widespread acceptance  
   >maintance the integratingof source code.

31.what is origin in git ?
A.origin is a shorthand name for the remote repository that aproject was originally cloned from.
 