													JENKINS
1.what is jenkins ?
A.Jenkins is an open source automation server. It helps automate the parts of software development related to
  building, testing, and deploying, facilitating continuous integration and continuous delivery.
             Initial release date: 2 February 2011
			 Developer: Kohsuke Kawaguchi
			 License: MIT License
			 Platform: Java 11, Java 17
			 Stable release: 2.386 / 10 January 2023; 32 days ago
			 Programming language: Java
			 
2.What is Jenkins and why it is used?
A.Jenkins is a Java-based open-source automation platform with plugins designed for continuous integration.
  It is used to continually create and test software projects, making it easier for developers and DevOps engineers to 
  integrate changes to the project and for consumers to get a new build.			 
  
3.What is CI process in Jenkins?
A.Continuous Integration is a software development process where a code is continuously tested after a commit to ensure there are no bugs. 
  In large teams, many developers work on the same code base.

4.what is CD process in jenkins ?
A.Continuous delivery (CD) is the automated delivery of completed code to environments like testing and development. 
  CD provides an automated and consistent way for code to be delivered to these environments. Continuous deployment is the next step of continuous delivery.  
  
5.what is continuous deployment ?
A.Continuous deployment is a strategy in software development where code changes to an application are released automatically into the production environment. 
  This automation is driven by a series of predefined tests. Once new updates pass those tests, the system pushes the updates directly to the software's users  
  
6.what is ci/cd pipeline ?
A.Continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipeline is a series of steps that must be performed in order to deliver a new version of software.
  CI/CD pipelines are a practice focused on improving software delivery throughout the software development life cycle via automation  
  
7.what is blue ocean ?
A. Blue Ocean is a new user experience for Jenkins based on a personalizable, modern design that allows users to graphically create,
   visualize and diagnose Continuous Delivery (CD) Pipelines "" 
   
8. What is a Jenkins job?
A.Jenkins is an open source continuous integration/continuous delivery and deployment (CI/CD) automation software DevOps tool written in the
  Java programming language.It is used to implement CI/CD workflows, called pipelines.   
  
9. What are the types of Jenkins pipelines?
A. >CI/CD pipeline 
   >Secripted pipeline   
   >Declarative pipeline
   
10.what is jenkins pipeline ?
A.Jenkins Pipeline (or simply "Pipeline") is a suite of plugins which supports implementing and integrating continuous delivery pipelines into Jenkins.

11.What is Jenkins Build Cause?   
A. What is Jenkins Build Cause? Build Cause is a text attribute that represents what made a job's build to be triggered, say it could be 
   a Jenkins User (from UI), Timer for Scheduled jobs, Upstream jobs for a job which was triggered by upstream job, etc.
   
12.what is ci/cd pipeline tools ?
A.1. Jenkins · 2. CircleCI · 3. TeamCity · 4. Bamboo · 5. GitLab · 6. Buddy · 7. Travis CI · 8. Codeship.

13.what is build triggers ?
A.A Cloud Build trigger automatically starts a build whenever you make any changes to your source code.
  You can configure the trigger to build your code on any changes to the source repository or only changes that match certain criteria.   
  
14.what is day build ?
A.Day Builds:
   Builds done during active development
  Two options:
  >Build for every change pushed by a developer
  >Build for every one hour or two hours in active working timings 
  >Generally day builds are on a different branch (develop, sprint-n-develop etc…)
  
15.Nightly Builds:
    >Consolidated build for all the work done by dev team(s) in one day
    >Build once in a day (Scheduled when no development )
    >Build should
	>Build the code
	>Unit tests
	>Static code analysis
	>Code Coverage
	>Run automated system tests and performance tests which require application to be deployed.
	>Tests might be developed using test automation tools like
		.Selenium
		.JMeter
		.Postman
		.Loadrunner
	>Nightbuilds on different branch (RELEASE_v1.0.0_SPRINTn)

16.What is upstream and downstream jobs?
A.>An upstream job is a configured project that triggers a project as part of its execution.
  >A downstream job is a configured project that is triggered as part of a execution of pipeline. 
 
17.what is Azure DevOps ?
A.Azure DevOps provides the services for allowing teams to plan work, code collaboration and development, build and deploy applications.
  Azure DevOps comes in two offerings
  Azure DevOps Server (Self Hosted)
  Azure DevOps Services
 
18. what is jenkins repository ?
A.The Jenkins project uses its own Artifactory binary repository, to distribute core, library, and plugin releases.

19.what is jenkins cluster ?
A.Jenkins is an open-source continuous integration and delivery system designed to ensure build and deploy automation.

20.what is jenkins selenium ?
A.Jenkins is a continuous integration tool that enables continuous testing, build, and deployment of iterative code changes.
  CI/CD tools help catch failures ahead of the production stage and mitigate them as they occur
  
21.what is jenkins stages ?
A.A stage block defines a conceptually distinct subset of tasks performed through the entire Pipeline 

22.what is jenkins plugins ?
A.Plugins are the primary means of enhancing the functionality of a Jenkins environment to suit organization- or user-specific needs

										
											MAVAN
											
1.what is maven ?
A.Maven is a build automation tool used primarily for Java projects. Maven can also be used to build and manage projects written 
  in C#, Ruby, Scala, and other languages. The Maven project is hosted by the Apache Software Foundation, where it was formerly part of the Jakarta Project.
        Initial release date: 13 July 2004
		Developer: Apache Software Foundation
		License: Apache License 2.0
		Stable release: 3.9.0 / 31 January 2023; 11 days ago
		Programming languages: Java, C#, C++											
		

3.What is a Maven lifecycle?
A. Maven is based around the central concept of a build lifecycle. What this means is that the process for building and distributing
   a particular artifact (project) is clearly defined

4.What is POM.XML?
A.POM stands for Project Object Model. It is fundamental unit of work in Maven. 
  It is an XML file that resides in the base directory of the project as pom. xml. 
  The POM contains information about the project and various configuration detail used by Maven to build the project(s).

5.What are the types of Maven?
A.There are 3 types of maven repository:
	.Local Repository.(Maven local repository is created by maven in your local system when you run any maven command. More details.)
	.Central Repository.(Maven community creates maven central repository on the web. More details.)
	.Remote Repository.(Maven remote repository is located on the web by different vendors. So you need to define the dependency in pom.xml file manually)		
	
6.What is Maven dependencies?
A.What Is a Maven Dependency. In the context of Maven, a dependency is simply a JAR file used by a Java application.
  Based on the POM file, Maven will download and add the JAR file to our Java path.	
  
7. What is an archetype?
A. Archetype is the maven plugin. It creates the project structure 

8.What is a MOJO?
A.A MOJO stands for Maven plain Old Java Object. Each MOJO is an executable goal in Maven, and a plugin is a distribution of one or more related MOJOs.

9.What is the difference between Ant and Maven?
A.					Ant													Maven
		   .It is a toolbox.										.It is a framework.
		   .It is mainly a build tool.								.It is mainly a project management tool.
		   .There is no life cycle.									.There is alife cycle.
		   .Ant doesn't have formal conventions.					.Maven has a convention to place source code, compiled code etc.
		   .Ant is procedural.										.Maven is declarative.
		   .The ant scripts are not reusable.						.The Maven plugins are reusable.

10.What are the advantages of Maven?
A. No need to add jar file in each project
   Creates right directory structure
   Builds and deploys the project