                                        TERRAFORM
									   
1.What is terraform ?
A.>Terraform is a tool for building ,changeing and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently.
  >Terraform can manage existing and popular service providers as well as custom in house solutions.
  
2.What is terraform provider ?
A.>Terraform is used to create, manage and update infrastructure resource such as physical machines ,
   VMs ,network switches ,containers and more .
  >Almost any infrastructure  type can be represented as a resource in terraform.
  
3.What is provisinor ?
A.>Provisioners are used to execute scripts on a local or remote machine as part of resource creation or destruction .  
  >Provisioners can be used to bootstrap a resource, cleanup before destory, run configuration management, etc
  
4.What is modules ?
A.>Modules in terraform are self-contained package  of terraform configurations that are managed as a group
  >Modules  are used to create reusable components in terraform as well as for basic code  organization.
  >Modeles is execute scripts/templetes on terraform.
  
5.What is resource ?
A.>The most important thing you'll configure with terraform are resources. Resources are a component of your infrastructure.
  >It might be some low level component such as a physical server ,virtual machine ,or container.
  >It can be a higher level component such as an email provider ,DNS record, or database provider.
  
6.What is backend ?
A.>A "backend" in terraform determines how state is loaded and how an operation such as apply is executed.
  >This abstraction enables non-local file state storage ,remote execution.
  
7.What is data source ?
A.>Data source allow data to be fetched or computed for use else where in terraform configuration.
  >Use of data source allow a terraform configuration to build on information defined outside of terraform.
  >Or defined by another separate terraform configuration.
  
8.What is variable ?
A.>Input variable serve as parameters for a terraform module.
  >When used in the root module of a configuration ,variable can be set from CLI arguments and environment variable.
  >For child modules ,they allow values to pass from parent to child.

9.What is output ?
A.>Output s define values that will be highlighted to the user when terraform applies,and can be 
    queried easily using the output command .
  >Output usage is covered in more detail in the getting started guide.

10.What is workspace ?
A.>A workspace is a virtual environment or an area within an application or an operating system that is dedicated to 
   a specific task, project, or set of activities  
  >For example, in a software development environment, a workspace may refer to a collection of files, folders, and
   tools that are specific to a particular software project.
   
11.What are the features of Terraform?
A.>Terraform Cloud Plans and Features
  >Free Organizations. 
  >Paid Features.
  >Changing Your Payment Plan. 
  >Remote Terraform Execution. 
  >Remote State Management, Data Sharing, and Run Triggers. 
  >Version Control Integration. 
  >Command Line Integration. 
  >Private Registry .  
  
12.Infrastructure as code ?
A.>IAC stands for "Infrastructure as Code". It is a methodology and a set of practices for managing and provisioning
    infrastructure through the use of code, rather than manual processes.  
  >With IAC, infrastructure is defined and managed as code, stored in version control systems like Git. 
    This makes it possible to automate the process of creating, updating, and destroying infrastructure, and to track changes over time.
	
13. What is implicit ?
A. >Implicit dependencies are the primary way that Terraform understands the relationships between your resources
   
14. What is explicit ?
A .>Explicit dependencies are dependencies that are set up “manually” between resources, using the depends_on keyword.

15. What is Terraform D?
A. Terraform D is a plugin used on most in-service systems and Windows. Terraform init by default searches next directories for plugins.   

16. What are some basic CLI commands? 
A .Following is a list of some basic CLI commands:

  >terraform init: The terraform init CLI command is used to prepare a working directory for other commands.
  >terraform destroy: The terraform destroy CLI command is used to destroy the previously-created infrastructure.
  >terraform validate: The terraform validate CLI command is used to check whether the configuration is valid or not.
  >terraform apply: The terraform apply CLI command is used to create or update the infrastructure.
  >terraform plan: The terraform plan CLI command shows the changes needed by the current configuration.
  >terraform refresh: The terraform refresh CLI command is used to refresh the state file.
  >terraform graph: The terraform graph CLI command creates a DOT-formatted graph.
  
17.Explain Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.
A. Oracle cloud offered by Oracle Corporation is a cloud computing service providing storage, servers, applications, 
   services, and network through a global network of managed data centers by Oracle Corporation. These services are
   provisioned on-demand over the Internet by the company.  

18.Define null resource in Terraform.
A.null_resource implements standard resource library, but no further action is taken. The triggers argument allows an
  arbitrary set of values that will cause the replacement of resources when changed.
  
19.What is Terragrunt, and what are its uses?  
A.Terragrunt is a thin wrapper that provides extra tools for keeping your configurations DRY, working with multiple
  Terraform modules, and managing remote state.
  
20.Explain State File Locking?
A.State locking is for locking the state during a deployment such that no two terraform processes try to update
  the same state at the same time.  
  
21.what is terraform plugin ?
A. Terraform Plugins: Plugins are executable binaries written in Go that communicate with Terraform Core over an RPC interface. 
   Terraform currently supports one type of plugin called providers.  
   
22.What is terraform enterprise ?
A.>Terraform Enterprise is our self-hosted distribution of Terraform Cloud.
  >It offers enterprises a private instance of the Terraform Cloud application, with no resource limits and with additional
    enterprise-grade architectural features like audit logging and SAML single sign-on.   
	
23. what is namespace in terraform ?
A .What is a Namespace? A Namespace is a Kubernetes resource that can be used to create a virtual environment in your 
   cluster to separate resources. 	

24.what is terraform taint ?
A.The terraform taint command informs Terraform that a particular object has become degraded or damaged. Terraform represents this by
  marking the object as "tainted" in the Terraform state, and Terraform will propose to replace it in the next plan you create.
    